Data Science Methodology
Week 3
Topic:

Deployment
Feedback
Final Assignment
Final Assignment:
In this Assignment, you will demonstrate your understanding of the data science methodology by applying it to a given problem. Pick one of the following topics to apply the data science methodology to:

Emails
Hospitals
Credit Cards

You will have to play the role of the client as well as the data scientist to come up with a problem that is more specific but related to these topics.

Project Title: Using Diet to Predict Colon Cancer Risk

Which topic did you choose to apply the data science methodology to?
My Answer: Hospitals

Using the topic that you selected, complete the Business Understanding stage by coming up with a problem that you would like to solve and phrasing it in the form of a question that you will use data to answer.
You are required to:

Describe the problem, related to the topic you selected.
Phrase the problem as a question to be answered using data.

My Answer: Colon Cancer is one of the most commonly diagnosed cancers around the world and is becoming more common is younger adults. One of the areas individuals have most control over is their diet. Due to this are there dietary patterns that can predict the risk of colon cancer?

Briefly explain how you would complete each of the following stages for the problem that you described in the Business Understanding stage, so that you are ultimately able to answer the question that you came up with.:

Analytic Approach
Data Requirements
Data Collection
Data Understanding and Preparation
Modeling and Evaluation

My Answer:

Analytic Approach: Using a neural network supervised learning approach from dietary colorectal cancer survey data to determine the important dietary features to be used in the model. Then the data will be split up into a training set to learn the patterns and relationships of the features to colorectal cancer and a testing set to provide an evaluation of the model in predicting colorectal cancer risk.

Data Requirements: 
To achieve this a large data set is needed that has information about individuals dietary patterns and occurances of colorectal cancer.

Data Collection: 
The CDC, Global Dietary database, as well as other global institutions have available surveys and questionnaires of dietary related colorectal cancer data.

Data Understanding and Preparation: 
The data would have to be cleaned and normalized to make sure the measurements were standardized, missing data was removed, and outlier features were removed.

Modeling and Evaluation:
A Random Forest classifier will be used to determine which of the features are most relevant and are ordered by importance. Then a cross validation will be performed to determine the optimal number of hidden nodes in the model. A sensitivity analysis will be performed to identify which of the features has the most significant impact on model, and a confusion matrix to evaluate the performance of the model.